\section{Introduction}

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
Historically, leader elections have had limited applications in critical
systems. However, in the smart grid domain, there is a great opportunity to
apply leader election algorithms in a directly beneficial way.
\cite{LOADBALANCING} presented a simple scheme for performing power
distribution and stabilization that relies on formed groups. Algorithms like
Zhang, et. al's Incremental Consensus Algorithm \cite{INCREMENTALCONSENSUS},
begin with the assumption that there is a group of nodes who coordinate to
distribute power. In a system where 100\% up time is not guaranteed, leader
elections are a promising method of establishing these groups.

A strong cyber-physical system should be able to survive and adapt to network
outages in both the physical and cyber domains. When one of these outages
occurs, the physical or cyber components must take corrective action to allow
the rest of the network to continue operating normally. Additionally, other
nodes may need to react to the state change of the failed node. In the realm
of computing, algorithms for managing and detecting when other nodes have
failed is a common distributed systems problem known as leader election.

This work observes the effects of network unreliability on the the group
management module of the Distributed Grid Intelligence (DGI) used by the
FREEDM smart-grid project. This system uses a broker system architecture to
coordinate several software modules that form a control system for a smart
power grid. These modules include: group management, which handles coordinating
nodes via leader election; state collection, a module which captures a global
system state; and load balancing which uses the captured global state to bring
the system to a stable state.

It is important for the designer of a cyber-physical system to consider what
effects the cyber components will have on the overall system. Failures in the
cyber domain can lead to critical instabilities which bring down the entire
system if not handled properly.  In fact, there is a major shortage of work
within the realm of the effects cyber outages have on CPSs
\cite{CYBERRESEARCHCALL} \cite{SMARTGRIDBENEFITS}. In this paper we present a
slice of what sort of analysis can be performed on a distributed cyber control
by subjecting the system to packet loss. The analysis focuses on quantifiable
changes in the amount of time a node of the system could spend participating in
energy management with other nodes.
